"THE FOLLOWING"
"SPECIAL ENCORE PRESENTATION"
"OF THE KENNEDY CENTER TONIGHT"
"PRODUCTION OF MEDEA"
"IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE"
"SUPPORT OF VIEWERS LIKE YOU."
"I WISH THE LONG SHIP"
"ARGO HAD NEVER PASSED"
"THAT PERILOUS CHANNEL"
"BETWEEN THE SYMPLEGADES."
"I WISH THE PINES THAT MADE"
"HER MAST AND HER OARS"
"STILL WAVED IN THE WIND ON MOUNT"
"PELION, AND THE GRAY FISHHAWK"
"STILL NESTED IN THEM, THE GREAT"
"ADVENTURERS HAD NEVER VOYAGED"
"INTO THE ASIAN SUNRISE"
"TO THE SHORES OF MORNING"
"FOR THE"
"GOLDEN FLEECE."
"FOR THEN MY MISTRESS MEDEA"
"WOULD NEVER HAVE SEEN JASON"
"NOR LOVED AND SAVED HIM,"
"NOR CUT HERSELF OFF FROM HOME"
"TO COME WITH HIM INTO THIS"
"COUNTRY OF THE SMILING"
"CHATTERING GREEKS AND"
"THE ROOFS OF CORINTH:"
"OVER WHICH I SEE EVIL"
"HANG LIKE A CLOUD."
"FOR SHE IS NOT MEEK BUT FIERCE,"
"AND THE DAUGHTER OF A KING."
"YET AT FIRST"
"ALL WENT WELL."
"THE FOLK OF CORINTH"
"WERE KIND TO HER,"
"THEY WERE PROUD OF HER"
"BEAUTY, AND JASON LOVED HER."
"HAPPY IS THE HOUSE WHERE"
"THE MAN AND THE WOMAN LOVE"
"AND ARE FAITHFUL."
"NOW ALL IS CHANGED;"
"ALL IS BLACK HATRED."
"FOR JASON HAS TURNED FROM"
"HER; HE CALLS THE OLD BOND"
"A BARBARIAN MATING, NOT A GREEK"
"MARRIAGE; HE HAS CAST HER OFF"
"AND WEDDED THE YELLOW-HAIRED"
"CHILD OF CREON, THE RULER HERE."
"HE WANTS WORLDLY"
"ADVANTAGE, FINE FRIENDS,"
"AND A HIGH"
"PLACE IN CORINTH"
"AND FOR THESE HE IS WILLING"
"TO CAST MEDEA LIKE A HARLOT,"
"AND BETRAY THE CHILDREN"
"THAT SHE HAS BORNE HIM."
"HE IS NOT WISE, I THINK."
"BUT MEDEA LIES IN THE HOUSE,"
"BROKEN WITH PAIN AND RAGE,"
"SHE WILL NEITHER EAT NOR"
"DRINK, EXCEPT HER OWN TEARS."
"SHE TURNS HER FACE TOWARD"
"THE EARTH, REMEMBERING HER"
"FATHER'S HOUSE AND HER NATIVE"
"LAND WHICH SHE ABANDONED"
"FOR LOVE OF THIS MAN"
"WHO NOW DESPISES HER."
"AND IF I TRY TO SPEAK COMFORT"
"TO HER SHE ONLY STARES AT ME,"
"GREAT EYES LIKE STONES."
"SHE IS LIKE A STONE ON THE"
"SHORE OR A WAVE OF THE SEA,"
"AND I THINK SHE HATES"
"EVEN HER CHILDREN."
"SHE'S LEARNING WHAT"
"IT IS TO BE A FOREIGNER,"
"CAST OUT, ALONE"
"AND DESPISED."
"SHE WILL NEVER LEARN TO BE"
"HUMBLE, SHE WILL NEVER LEARN"
"TO DRINK INSULT LIKE"
"HARMLESS WATER."
"OH, I'M IN TERROR OF HER;"
"WHETHER SHE'LL THREAD A KNIFE"
"THROUGH HER OWN HEART,"
"OR WHETHER SHE'LL HUNT THE"
"BRIDEGROOM AND HIS NEW BRIDE,"
"OR WHAT MORE DREADFUL EVIL"
"STALKS THROUGH THE"
"FOREST OF HER DARK MIND."
"I KNOW THAT JASON WOULD HAVE"
"BEEN WISER TO TEMPT A LIONESS,"
"OR NAKED-HANDED STEAL"
"THE WHELPS OF A TIGER."
"HERE COME THE"
"HAPPY CHILDREN."
"LITTLE THEY KNOW OF"
"THEIR MOTHER'S GRIEF."
"IS SHE STILL IN THAT"
"DEEP DESPAIR?"
"YOU ARE LUCKY, OLD"
"WATCHDOG OF JASON'S BOYS,"
"YOU DO NOT"
"SEE HER."
"THIS EVIL IS NOT DECLINING,"
"IT IS JUST AT DAWN."
"I DREAD THE LION-EYED"
"GLARE OF ITS NOON."
"IS SHE SO WROUGHT?"
"YET NEITHER YOU NOR MEDEA"
"KNOWS THE LATEST AND WORST."
"WHAT? WHAT?"
"I SHOULDN'T"
"HAVE SPOKEN."
"YOU AND I ARE TWO SLAVES,"
"WE CAN TRUST EACH OTHER,"
"I HEARD THEM SAYING, WHEN WE"
"WALKED BESIDE THE HOLY FOUNTAIN"
"PEIRENE WHERE THE OLD MEN SIT IN"
"THE SUN ON THE STONE BENCHES,"
"THEY WERE SAYING THAT CREON, THE"
"LORD OF THIS LAND, INTENDS TO"
"DRIVE OUT MEDEA AND THE CHILDREN"
"WITH HER, THESE INNOCENT BOYS,"
"OUT OF THIS HOUSE AND OUT OF"
"CORINTH, AND THEY MUST WANDER"
"THE WILD WORLD"
"HOMELESS AND HELPLESS."
"I DON'T BELIEVE IT. NO,"
"JASON MAY HATE THE MOTHER"
"BUT HE WOULD HARDLY"
"LET HIS SONS BE CAST OUT."
"LISTEN: I HEAR"
"HER VOICE."
"TAKE THE CHILDREN AWAY,"
"KEEP THEM AWAY FROM HER."
"TAKE THEM TO THE"
"OTHER DOOR. QUICKLY."
"DEATH IS MY WISH..."
"FOR MYSELF, MY"
"ENEMIES, MY CHILDREN."
"THIS IS MY TERROR: TO HEAR"
"HER ALWAYS HARKING BACK"
"TO THE CHILDREN, LIKE A"
"FIERCE HOUND AT FAULT."
"OH, UNHAPPY ONE,"
"THEY'RE NOT TO BLAME."
"IF ANY GOD HEARS ME:"
"LET ME DIE."
"OH, IT'S A BAD THING TO BE BORN"
"OF HIGH RACE AND BROUGHT UP"
"WILLFUL AND POWERFUL IN A GREAT"
"HOUSE, UNRULED AND RULING MANY:"
"FOR THEN IF MISFORTUNE"
"COMES IT IS UNENDURABLE,"
"I SAY THAT POOR PEOPLE ARE"
"HAPPIER: LITTLE COMMONERS"
"AND HUMBLE PEOPLE, THE POOR IN"
"SPIRIT: THEY CAN LIE LOW UNDER"
"THE WIND AND LIVE: WHILE THE"
"TALL OAKS AND CLOUD-RAKING"
"MOUNTAIN PINES GO MAD IN THE"
"STORM, WRITHE, GROAN AND CRASH."
"THIS IS THE WILD AND"
"TERRIBLE JUSTICE OF GOD:"
"IT BRINGS ON GREAT PERSONS"
"THE GREAT DISASTERS."
"WHAT DO YOU WANT?"
"I HEAR HER CRYING AGAIN:"
"IT IS DREADFUL."
"HER LAMENTATION."
"SHE IS BEAUTIFUL AND DEEP IN"
"GRIEF: WE COULDN'T HELP COMING."
"WE ARE FRIENDS OF THIS HOUSE"
"AND ITS TROUBLE HURTS US."
"YOU ARE RIGHT, FRIENDS,"
"IT'S NOT A HOME. IT'S BROKEN."
"OLD AND HONORED SERVANT OF A"
"GREAT HOUSE: DO YOU THINK IT IS"
"WISE TO LEAVE YOUR"
"LADY ALONE IN THERE,"
"BUILDING THAT TERRIBLE"
"ACROPOLIS OF DEADLY THOUGHTS?"
"WE GREEKS BELIEVE THAT"
"SOLITUDE IS VERY DANGEROUS,"
"GREAT PASSIONS GROW INTO"
"MONSTERS IN THE DARK"
"OF THE MIND; BUT IF YOU SHARE"
"THEM WITH LOVING FRIENDS"
"THEY REMAIN HUMAN,"
"THEY CAN BE ENDURED."
"SHE HAS LIVED AMONG US,"
"WE'VE LEARNED TO LOVE HER,"
"WE'D GLADLY"
"TELL HER SO."
"IT MIGHT COMFORT"
"HER SPIRIT."
"DO YOU THINK SO?"
"SHE WOULDN'T LISTEN."
"OH, SHE IS COMING!"
"SPEAK CAREFULLY TO HER; MAKE"
"YOUR WORDS A SOFT MUSIC."
"OH MY DEAR,"
"MY POOR CHILD."
"THEY SAY SHE"
"IS DANGEROUS."
"LOOK AT HER EYES."
"SHE IS A WITCH,"
"BUT NOT EVIL."
"SHE CAN MAKE OLD"
"MEN YOUNG AGAIN:"
"ALL THE PEOPLE OF HER"
"COUNTRY ARE WITCHES."
"THEY KNOW ABOUT"
"DRUGS AND MAGIC."
"THEY ARE SAVAGES, BUT"
"THEY HAVE A WILD WISDOM."
"I WILL LOOK AT THE LIGHT"
"OF THE SUN, THIS LAST TIME."
"I WISH FROM THAT BLUE SKY"
"THE WHITE WOLF OF LIGHTNING"
"WOULD LEAP, AND BURST"
"MY SKULL AND MY BRAIN,"
"AND LIKE A BURNING BABE"
"CLING TO THESE BREASTS."
"SOMEONE IS HERE?"
"I DID NOT KNOW"
"I HAD VISITORS."
"WOMEN OF CORINTH: IF ANYTHING"
"HAS BEEN SPOKEN TOO LOUDLY HERE,"
"CONSIDER THAT I"
"BELIEVED I WAS ALONE;"
"AND I HAVE"
"SOME PROVOCATION."
"YOU'VE COME, LET ME SUPPOSE,"
"WITH LOVE AND SYMPATHY "
"TO PEER AT MY SORROW."
"I UNDERSTAND WELL ENOUGH"
"THAT NOTHING IS EVER PRIVATE"
"IN A GREEK CITY; WHOEVER"
"WITHHOLDS ANYTHING"
"IS THOUGHT"
"SULLEN OR PROUD."
"UNDEMOCRATIC I"
"THINK YOU CALL IT."
"THIS IS NOT ALWAYS JUST,"
"BUT WE KNOW THAT JUSTICE,"
"AT LEAST ON EARTH,"
"IS A NAME, NOT A FACT."
"AND AS FOR ME, I WISH TO AVOID"
"ANY APPEARANCE OF BEING PROUD."
"OF WHAT? OF"
"AFFLICTION?"
"I WILL SHOW YOU"
"MY NAKED HEART."
"YOU KNOW THAT MY LORD JASON"
"HAS LEFT ME AND MADE A SECOND"
"MARRIAGE WITH THE BRIGHT-HAIRED"
"CHILD OF WEALTH AND POWER."
"I TOO WAS A CHILD OF POWER,"
"BUT NOT IN THIS COUNTRY;"
"AND I SPENT MY POWER"
"FOR LOVE OF JASON."
"I POURED IT OUT"
"BEFORE HIM LIKE WATER,"
"I MADE HIM DRINK"
"IT LIKE WINE."
"I GAVE HIM SUCCESS AND FAME;"
"I SAVED HIM HIS PRECIOUS LIFE;"
"NOT ONCE, MANY TIMES."
"YOU MAY HAVE HEARD"
"WHAT I DID FOR HIM:"
"I BETRAYED MY FATHER FOR HIM, I"
"KILLED MY BROTHER TO SAVE HIM;"
"I MADE MY OWN LAND"
"TO HATE ME FOREVER;"
"AND I FLED WEST WITH"
"JASON IN THE GREEK SHIP,"
"UNDER THE THUNDER OF "
"SAIL, WEEPING AND LAUGHING,"
"THAT HUGE JOURNEY"
"THROUGH THE BLACK SEA"
"AND THE BOSPHORUS, WHERE"
"THE ROCKS CLANG TOGETHER,"
"THROUGH THE SEA OF MARMORA,"
"AND THROUGH THE HELLESPONT,"
"WATCHED BY THE SPEARMEN"
"OF WEALTHY TROY, AND HOME"
"TO GREEK WATER: HIS HOME,"
"MY EXILE, MY ENDLESS EXILE."
"AND HERE I HAVE LOVED"
"HIM AND BORNE HIM SONS;"
"AND THIS... MAN..."
"HAS LEFT ME AND TAKEN CREON'S"
"DAUGHTER, TO ENJOY HER FORTUNE,"
"AND PUT ASIDE HER SOFT YELLOW"
"HAIR AND KISS HER YOUNG MOUTH."
"SHE IS TERRIBLE."
"STONE WITH STONE EYES."
"SHE IS PITIABLE; SHE IS"
"UNDER GREAT INJURIES."
"I DO NOT KNOW HOW MUCH A"
"GREEK WOMAN WILL ENDURE."
"THE PEOPLE OF MY RACE ARE"
"SOMEWHAT RASH AND INTEMPERATE."
"AS FOR ME, I WANT"
"SIMPLY TO DIE."
"BUT JASON IS NOT TO SMILE"
"AT HIS BRIDE OVER MY GRAVE,"
"NOR THAT GREAT MAN"
"CREON HANG WREATHS"
"AND MAKE A FEAST-DAY"
"IN CORINTH."
"OH LET THE WREATHS BE"
"BRIGHT BLINDING FIRE,"
"AND THE SONGS A HIGH"
"WAILING, AND THE WINE BLOOD."
"DAUGHTER OF"
"SORROW, BEWARE."
"IT IS DANGEROUS TO DREAM OF"
"WINE, IT IS WORSE TO SPEAK OF"
"WAILING OR BLOOD: FOR THE"
"IMAGES THE MIND MAKES"
"FIND A WAY OUT,"
"THEY WORK INTO LIFE."
"LET THEM"
"WORK INTO LIFE!"
"THERE ARE EVILS THAT"
"CANNOT BE CURED BY EVIL."
"PATIENCE REMAINS,"
"AND THE GODS WATCH ALL."
"LET THEM WATCH MY"
"ENEMIES GO DOWN IN BLOOD."
"MEDEA, BEWARE! SOME"
"GREAT PERSON IS COMING"
"- IT IS CREON HIMSELF!"
"CREON IS COMING."
"HE IS DARK WITH ANGER."
"OH MY LADY, MY CHILD; BEND IN"
"THIS WIND, AND NOT BE BROKEN!"
"YOU HAVE"
"ADMIRERS, I SEE."
"MEDEA, WOMAN OF THE STONE"
"FOREHEAD AND HATE-FILLED EYES:"
"I HAVE MADE"
"MY DECISION."
"I HAVE DECIDED THAT YOU MUST"
"LEAVE THIS LAND AT ONCE"
"AND GO INTO BANISHMENT,"
"YOU WITH YOUR CHILDREN."
"I INTEND TO REMOVE A"
"ROOT OF DISTURBANCE"
"OUT OF THE"
"SOIL OF CORINTH."
"I WILL NOT RETURN"
"HOME UNTIL IT IS DONE."
"BANISHMENT?"
"GO WHERE YOU MAY, MEDEA,"
"BUT HERE YOU ABIDE NO MORE."
"I WITH MY CHILDREN?"
"I WILL NOT TAKE"
"THEM AWAY FROM YOU."
"BECAUSE WE HAVE SUFFERED EVIL"
"WE ARE TO SUFFER MORE EVIL."
"DEATH WAS MY WISH."
"WORDS. YOU'LL"
"NOT BE HINDERED:"
"YOU CAN HAVE DEATH WHILE"
"THERE ARE ROPES TO HANG BY"
"OR WAVES TO DROWN IN."
"ONLY MAKE HASTE"
"AND LEAVE THIS LAND."
"THE CHILDREN, MY LORD...."
"WHAT ARE YOU"
"MUTTERING?"
"NOTHING. I AM PRAYING"
"TO MY GODS FOR WISDOM."
"AND YOU FOR MERCY."
"YOU KNOW, MY LORD,"
"WHAT EXILE MEANS:"
"TO BEG A BREAD CRUST"
"AND BE DERIDED;"
"PELTED WITH STONES"
"IN THE VILLAGES."
"THE CHILDREN, MY LORD,"
"ARE JASON'S CHILDREN."
"YOUR CHOSEN FRIEND, I BELIEVE,"
"AND NOW EVEN CLOSER BOUND."
"AND AS FOR ME YOUR SERVANT,"
"OH MASTER OF CORINTH,"
"WHAT HAVE I DONE?"
"WHY MUST I BE CAST?"
"I WILL TELL YOU FRANKLY: BECAUSE"
"YOU NOURISH RANCOROUS ILL WILL"
"TOWARD PERSONS WHOM"
"I INTEND TO PROTECT."
"I SEND YOU OUT BEFORE YOU"
"HAVE TIME TO DO HARM HERE."
"AND YOU ARE NOTORIOUS"
"FOR OCCULT KNOWLEDGE:"
"SORCERY,"
"POISONS, MAGIC."
"MEN SAY YOU CAN EVEN SING"
"DOWN THE MOON FROM HEAVEN."
"HM? AS TO THAT I KNOW NOT."
"I KNOW YOU ARE DANGEROUS."
"YOU THREATEN MY DAUGHTER:"
"YOU HAVE TO GO."
"BUT I WISH HER WELL, MY LORD!"
"I WISH HER ALL HAPPINESS."
"I HOPE THAT JASON MAY BE"
"AS KIND TO HER AS TO ME."
"THAT IS YOUR WISH?"
"I MISSPOKE... I"
"THOUGHT OF OLD DAYS."
"I ACKNOWLEDGE, MEDEA, YOU"
"HAVE SOME CAUSE FOR GRIEF."
"I ALL THE MORE MUST GUARD"
"AGAINST YOUR DARK WISDOM"
"AND BITTER HEART."
"YOU MISJUDGE"
"ME CRUELLY."
"IT IS TRUE I HAVE SOME"
"KNOWLEDGE OF DRUGS"
"AND MEDICINES: IF ANY"
"PERSON KNOWS A LITTLE MORE"
"THAN THE COMMON MAN,"
"THE PEOPLE SUSPECT HIM."
"BUT YOU ARE NOT A COMMON"
"MAN, LORD OF CORINTH,"
"YOU WILL NOT"
"FEAR KNOWLEDGE."
"NO. NOR CHANGE"
"MY DECISION."
"I PITY YOU MEDEA,"
"BUT YOU MUST GO."
"YOU PITY ME?"
"I WILL ENDURE A DOG'S PITY"
"OR A WART-GROWN TOAD'S."
"MAY GOD WHO HEARS ME..."
"WE SHALL SEE IN THE"
"END WHO'S TO BE PITIED!"
"THIS IS GOOD. THIS"
"IS WHAT I DESIRE."
"UNMASK THE LIVID"
"FACE OF YOUR HATRED"
"AND I SEE WHOM"
"I DEAL WITH."
"SERPENT AND WOLF:"
"A WOLF FROM ASIA."
"I'D RATHER HAVE YOU RAGE"
"NOW THAN DO HARM LATER."
"NOW, MEDEA!"
"OUT OF HERE"
"BEFORE MY MEN"
"DRIVE YOU OUT."
"YOU SEE A WOMAN DRIVEN"
"HALF MAD WITH SORROW,"
"LABORING TO SAVE"
"HER LITTLE CHILDREN."
"NO WOLF, MY LORD."
"THE RACES OF ASIA ARE HUMAN"
"TOO, AS THE BRIGHT GREEKS ARE."
"AND WE HAVE CHILDREN AND"
"LOVE THEM, AS GREEKS DO."
"YOU HAVE A DAUGHTER,"
"SIR... SHE IS BEAUTIFUL."
"IF I WERE NEAR HER I"
"WOULD SOON LOVE HER."
"YOU CAN SPEAK SWEETLY"
"ENOUGH, YOU CAN MAKE HONEY"
"IN YOUR MOUTH LIKE A BROWN"
"BEE WHEN IT SERVES YOUR TURN."
"NOT HONEY: THE TRUTH."
"TRUST YOU OR NOT, YOU ARE GOING"
"OUT OF THIS COUNTRY, MEDEA."
"MAKE READY QUICKLY: I"
"HAVE A GUEST IN MY HOUSE,"
"I SHOULD"
"RETURN TO HIM."
"WHAT GUEST? OH MY LADY,"
"ASK HIM WHO IS THE GUEST?"
"IF POWERFUL AND FRIENDLY"
"HE MIGHT BE A REFUGE TO US"
"IN BITTER EXILE."
"I KNOW THAT YOUR"
"WILL IS GRANITE."
"BUT EVEN ON THE HARSH"
"FACE OF A GRANITE MOUNTAIN"
"SOME FLOWERS OF MERCY"
"MAY GROW IN SEASON."
"HAVE MERCY ON MY"
"LITTLE SONS, CREON,"
"THOUGH THERE"
"IS NONE FOR ME."
"HOW LONG, WOMAN? THIS IS"
"DECIDED; DONE; FINISHED."
"I AM NOT A BEGGAR. I"
"WILL NOT TROUBLE YOU."
"I SHALL NOT"
"LIVE LONG."
"SIRE: GRANT ME A FEW HOURS"
"YET, ONE DAY TO PREPARE IN,"
"ONE LITTLE DAY BEFORE I GO"
"OUT OF CORINTH FOREVER."
"WHAT? NO! I TOLD YOU THE DAY"
"IS TODAY, MEDEA, THIS DAY."
"AND THE HOUR IS NOW."
"THERE ARE NO FLOWERS"
"ON THIS MOUNTAIN:"
"NOT ONE VIOLET,"
"NOT ONE ANEMONE."
"YOUR FACE, MY"
"LORD, IS LIKE FLINT."
"IF I COULD FIND THE RIGHT WORDS,"
"IF SOME GOD WOULD LEND ME"
"A TOUCH OF ELOQUENCE,"
"I'D SHOW YOU MY HEART."
"I'D LIFT IT OUT OF MY BREAST"
"AND TURN IT OVER IN MY HANDS,"
"YOU'D SEE HOW PURE IT IS"
"OF ANY HARM OR MALICE"
"TOWARD YOU OR"
"YOUR HOUSEHOLD."
"I BESEECH YOU, CREON, BY"
"THE SOFT YELLOW HAIR"
"AND COOL SMOOTH FOREHEAD"
"AND THE WHITE KNEES"
"OF THAT YOUNG GIRL WHO"
"IS NOW JASON'S BRIDE:"
"LEND ME THIS INCH OF TIME:"
"ONE DAY, HALF A DAY,"
"FOR THIS ONE IS NOW HALF GONE,"
"AND I WILL GO MY SAD COURSE"
"AND VANISH IN THE MORNING"
"QUIETLY AS DEW THAT DROPS"
"ON THE STONES AT DAWN"
"AND IS DRY AT SUNRISE."
"YOU WILL NEVER AGAIN BE TROUBLED"
"BY ANY WORD OR ACT OF MINE."
"AND THIS I PRAY YOU FOR"
"YOUR DEAR CHILD'S SAKE."
"OH CREON, WHAT IS HALF A DAY IN"
"ALL THE RICH YEARS OF CORINTH?"
"I AM NO TYRANT."
"I HAVE BEEN MERCIFUL TO"
"MY OWN HURT, MANY TIMES."
"EVEN TO MYSELF I SEEM FOOLISH"
"IF I GRANT YOU THIS THING."
"NO, MEDEA, I"
"WILL NOT GRANT IT."
"WELL, WE SHALL WATCH YOU:"
"AS A HAWK DOES A VIPER."
"WHAT HARM COULD SHE DO"
"IN THE TAIL OF ONE DAY?"
"A RULER OUGHT TO BE"
"RUTHLESS, BUT I AM NOT."
"I AM A FOOL IN MY OWN EYES,"
"WHATEVER THE WORLD MAY THINK."
"TAKE IT THEN. MAKE"
"YOUR PREPARATIONS."
"BUT IF TOMORROW'S SUN SHINES"
"ON YOU HERE - MEDEA, YOU DIE."
"ENOUGH WORDS."
"THANK ME NOT."
"I WANT MY HANDS"
"WASHED OF THIS BUSINESS."
"I WILL THANK YOU..."
"AND THE WHOLE"
"WORLD WILL HEAR OF IT."
"I HAVE SEEN THIS"
"MAN'S ARROGANCE,"
"I WATCHED"
"AND HEARD HIM."
"I AM OF CORINTH, AND I SAY"
"THAT CORINTH IS NOT WELL RULED."
"THE CITY WHERE EVEN A"
"WOMAN, EVEN A FOREIGNER,"
"SUFFERS UNJUSTLY THE RODS"
"OF POWER IS NOT WELL RULED."
"UNHAPPY MEDEA, WHAT"
"HAVEN, WHAT SANCTUARY,"
"WHERE WILL"
"YOU WANDER?"
"THIS MAN, THIS BARKING"
"DOG, THIS GULLED FOOL,"
"GODS OF MY FATHER'S COUNTRY,"
"YOU SAW ME LOW ON MY KNEES"
"BEFORE THE GREAT"
"DOG OF CORINTH;"
"HUMBLE, HOLDING MY HEART IN"
"MY HANDS FOR A DOG TO BITE."
"BREAK THIS DOG'S TEETH!"
"WOMEN... IT IS A BITTER"
"THING TO BE A WOMAN."
"A WOMAN IS WEAK FOR WARFARE,"
"SHE MUST USE CUNNING."
"MEN BOAST THEIR BATTLES: I"
"TELL YOU THIS, AND WE KNOW IT:"
"IT IS EASIER TO STAND IN BATTLE"
"THREE TIMES IN THE FRONT LINE"
"IN THE STABBING FURY"
"THAN TO BEAR ONE CHILD."
"AND A WOMAN, THEY SAY, CAN"
"DO NO GOOD BUT IN CHILDBIRTH."
"IT MAY BE SO."
"SHE CAN DO EVIL,"
"SHE CAN DO EVIL."
"I WEPT BEFORE THAT TALL DOG,"
"I WEPT MY TEARS BEFORE HIM,"
"I DEGRADED MY KNEES TO HIM,"
"I GULLED AND FLATTERED HIM:"
"OH TRIPLE FOOL, HE HAS"
"GIVEN ME ALL THAT I NEEDED:"
"A LITTLE TIME, A"
"SPACE OF TIME."
"DEATH IS DEARER TO ME THAN WHAT"
"I AM NOW; AND IF TODAY BY SUNSET"
"THE WORLD HAS NOT TURNED, AND"
"TURNED SHARP TOO, LET YOUR DOG"
"CREON SEND TWO OR THREE"
"SLAVES TO KILL ME AND A CORD"
"TO STRANGLE ME: I WILL"
"STRETCH OUT MY THROAT TO IT."
"BUT I HAVE A BITTER"
"HOPE, WOMEN."
"I BEGIN TO SEE LIGHT"
"THROUGH THE DARK WOOD,"
"BETWEEN THE MONSTROUS"
"TRUNKS OF THE TREES,"
"AT THE END OF THE TANGLED"
"FOREST AN EYEHOLE,"
"A PIN-POINT OF LIGHT:"
"I SHALL NOT DIE PERHAPS"
"AS A PIGEON DIES."
"NOR LIKE AN INNOCENT LAMB"
"THAT FEELS A HAND ON ITS HEAD"
"AND LOOKS UP FROM THE KNIFE"
"TO THE MAN'S FACE AND DIES."
"NO, LIKE SOME YELLOW-EYED BEAST"
"THAT HAS KILLED ITS HUNTERS"
"LET ME LIE DOWN ON THE HOUNDS'"
"BODIES AND THE BROKEN SPEARS."
"THEN HOW TO STRIKE THEM?"
"WHAT MEANS TO USE?"
"THERE ARE SO MANY DOORS"
"THROUGH WHICH PAINFUL DEATH"
"MAY GLIDE IN AND CATCH..."
"WHICH ONE, WHICH ONE?"
"TELL ME: DO YOU KNOW WHAT"
"GUEST IS IN CREON'S HOUSE?"
"AN ATHENIAN SHIP CAME"
"FROM THE NORTH LAST NIGHT:"
"IT IS AEGEUS, THE"
"LORD OF ATHENS."
"AEGEUS! MY LADY KNOWS HIM:"
"I BELIEVE HE WILL HELP US."
"SOME GOD HAS BROUGHT"
"HIM HERE, SOME SAVIOR GOD."
"HE IS LEAVING,"
"I THINK, TODAY."
"MY LADY! LORD AEGEUS IS HERE"
"IN CORINTH, CREON'S GUEST."
"IF YOU WILL SEE HIM AND SPEAK"
"HIM FAIRLY, WE HAVE A REFUGE."
"I HAVE THINGS IN MY"
"HAND TO DO. BE QUIET."
"OH, LISTEN TO ME!"
"YOU ARE DRIVEN OUT OF CORINTH,"
"YOU MUST FIND SHELTER."
"AEGEUS OF"
"ATHENS IS HERE."
"WHAT'S THAT TO ME?"
"I HELD YOU IN MY ARMS"
"WHEN YOU WERE THIS LONG."
"I GAVE YOU MILK"
"FROM THESE BREASTS"
"THAT ARE NOW"
"DEAD LEAVES."
"I SAW THE LITTLE BEAUTIFUL BODY"
"STRAIGHTEN AND GROW TALL:"
"OH CHILD, HOW CAN I"
"NOT TRY TO SAVE YOU?"
"LIFE IS BETTER"
"THAN DEATH."
"NOT NOW."
"TIME'S RUNNING OUT."
"I HAVE TIME."
"OH, I HAVE TIME."
"IT WOULD BE GOOD TO SIT HERE A"
"THOUSAND YEARS AND THINK OF"
"NOTHING BUT THE DEATHS"
"OF THREE PERSONS."
"AH, THERE'S"
"NO HOPE THEN."
"CHILD, IF YOU WOULD DO"
"THIS RED THING YOU DREAM OF,"
"ALL CORINTH WOULD"
"POUR AGAINST YOU."
"AFTER MY ENEMIES ARE"
"PUNISHED AND I'VE HEARD"
"THE LAST BROKEN MOAN"
"- CORINTH? WHAT'S THAT?"
"I'LL SLEEP. I'LL"
"SLEEP WELL."
"I AM ALONE AGAINST ALL AND"
"SO WEARY THAT IT IS PITIFUL."
"LOOK: WHO IS COMING?"
"I SEE SUNLIGHT"
"GLITTER ON LANCEHEADS."
"OH, IT IS JASON!"
"JASON! MEDEA'S"
"WORST ENEMY,"
"WHO SHOULD HAVE BEEN"
"HER DEAREST PROTECTOR."
"WHAT BUSINESS HAVE"
"YOU HERE, YOU WOMEN"
"CLUSTERED LIKE BUZZING"
"BEES AROUND A HIVE DOOR?"
"WHERE IS MEDEA?"
"THERE: MOURNING FOR"
"WHAT YOU HAVE DONE."
"WHAT SHE"
"HAS DONE. NOT I."
"NOT BY MY WILL SHE AND"
"MY SONS ARE EXILED."
"IS THERE ANOTHER"
"DOG HERE?"
"SO, MEDEA... YOU"
"HAVE ONCE MORE"
"AFFRONTED AND INSULTED"
"THE HEAD OF CORINTH."
"THIS IS NOT THE FIRST TIME I'VE"
"SEEN WHAT A FOOL ANGER IS."
"YOU MIGHT HAVE LIVED HERE"
"HAPPILY, SECURE AND HONORED"
"- I HOPED YOU WOULD -"
"BY BEING JUST A LITTLE"
"DECENTLY RESPECTFUL"
"TOWARD THOSE IN POWER."
"INSTEAD YOU HAD TO"
"GO MAD WITH ANGER"
"AND TALK"
"YOURSELF INTO EXILE."
"TO ME IT MATTERS LITTLE"
"WHAT YOU SAY ABOUT ME,"
"BUT RULERS"
"ARE SENSITIVE."
"CALL YOURSELF LUCKY, MEDEA,"
"NOT TO GET WORSE THAN EXILE."
"IN SPITE OF ALL THIS, I HAVE"
"YOUR INTEREST AT HEART"
"AND AM HERE"
"TO HELP YOU."
"EXILE'S A BITTER"
"BUSINESS,"
"I WANT TO MAKE SOME"
"PROVISION FOR YOU."
"I WISH YOU NO HARM,"
"ALTHOUGH YOU HATE ME."
"AND IN PARTICULAR THE"
"CHILDREN; MY SONS; OUR SONS."
"YOU MIGHT HAVE"
"BEEN DECENT ENOUGH"
"TO HAVE THOUGHT"
"OF OUR SONS."
"DID YOU CONSIDER THEM WHEN"
"YOU BETRAYED THIS HOUSE?"
"CERTAINLY I"
"CONSIDERED THEM."
"IT WAS MY HOPE THAT THEY"
"WOULD GROW UP HERE, AND I,"
"HAVING MARRIED POWER,"
"COULD PROTECT AND FAVOR THEM."
"AND IF PERHAPS, AFTER MANY"
"YEARS, I BECOME DYNAST OF"
"CORINTH - FOR THAT IS CREON'S"
"DESIRE, TO MAKE ME HIS HEIR -"
"OUR SONS WOULD HAVE"
"BEEN A KING'S SONS."
"I HOPED TO HELP THEM, WHEREVER"
"THEY GO: BUT NOW OF COURSE"
"MUST LOOK FORWARD"
"TO YOUNGER CHILDREN."
"AH, IT'S ENOUGH."
"SOMETHING MIGHT HAPPEN."
"IT IS LIKELY THAT"
"SOMETHING MIGHT HAPPEN"
"TO THE BRIDE"
"AND THE MARRIAGE."
"I'LL GUARD AGAINST IT."
"BUT EVIDENTLY CREON IS"
"RIGHT TO BE RID OF YOU."
"I'LL GO TO THE PALACE"
"AND SEEK FOR AEGEUS"
"- THERE'S NO OTHER HOPE."
"HAVE YOU"
"FINISHED NOW?"
"I THOUGHT I WOULD LET YOU SPEAK"
"ON AND SPREAD OUT YOUR"
"SHAMELESSNESS BEFORE THESE"
"WOMEN: THE WAY A TYRIAN TRADER"
"UNROLLS HIS RARE FABRICS:"
""DO YOU LIKE IT, LADIES?""
"IT IS THE DOG'S"
"DAUGHTER'S HUSBAND."
"IT IS A BRAVE PERSON: IT HAS"
"FINALLY GOT UP ITS COURAGE"
"- WITH A GUARD OF SPEARS - TO"
"COME AND LOOK ME IN THE FACE."
"OH JASON: HOW HAVE"
"YOU PULLED ME DOWN"
"TO THIS HELL OF"
"VILE THOUGHTS?"
"I DID NOT USE TO TALK"
"LIKE A COMMON WOMAN."
"I LOVED YOU ONCE: AND I AM"
"ASHAMED OF IT: BUT THERE ARE"
"SOME THINGS THAT OUGHT TO BE"
"REMEMBERED BY YOU AND ME."
"THAT BLUE DAY WHEN WE"
"DROVE THROUGH THE HELLESPONT"
"INTO GREEK SEA, AND THE"
"GREAT-SHOULDERED HEROES"
"WERE SINGING AT THE OARS,"
"AND THOSE BIRDS WERE FLYING"
"THROUGH THE BLOWN FOAM: THAT"
"DAY WAS TOO FINE I SUPPOSE"
"FOR CREON'S DAUGHTER'S"
"MAN TO REMEMBER:"
"BUT YOU MIGHT REMEMBER WHETHER"
"I CHEATED MY FATHER FOR YOU"
"AND TAMED THE FIRE-BREATHING"
"BRAZEN-HOOFED BULLS;"
"AND WHETHER I SAVED YOUR LIFE"
"IN THE FIELD OF THE TEETH;"
"AND YOU MIGHT REMEMBER WHETHER"
"I POISONED THE GREAT SERPENT"
"AND GOT YOU THE GOLDEN"
"FLEECE; AND FLED WITH YOU,"
"AND KILLED MY BROTHER"
"WHEN HE PURSUED US,"
"MAKING MYSELF ABOMINABLE"
"IN MY OWN HOME;"
"AND THEN IN YOURS I"
"GOT YOUR ENEMY PELIAS"
"HACKED TO DEATH BY HIS"
"OWN DAUGHTER'S HANDS."
"WHATEVER THESE FINE"
"CORINTHIAN FRIENDS OF YOURS"
"MAY SAY AGAINST MY"
"RAPID AND TRICKY WISDOM;"
"YOU IT HAS SERVED,"
"YOU IT HAS SERVED WELL:"
"HERE ARE FIVE TIMES,"
"IF I'VE COUNTED RIGHT -"
"AND ALL'S NOT COUNTED"
"- WHERE YOUR ADVENTURES"
"WOULD HAVE BEEN DUSTY"
"DEATH IF I'D NOT SAVED YOU."
"BUT NOW YOU THINK YOUR"
"ADVENTURES ARE OVER;"
"YOU ARE SAFE AND"
"HIGH PLACED IN CORINTH,"
"AND WILL NEED"
"ME NO MORE."
"IT IS A BIT OF A DOG,"
"ISN'T IT, WOMEN?"
"IT IS WELL QUALIFIED TO SLEEP"
"WITH THE DOG'S DAUGHTER."
"BUT FOR ME, JASON, ME"
"DRIVEN BY THE HAIRY SNOUTS"
"FROM THE QUADRUPED"
"MARRIAGE BED,"
"WHAT REFUGE DOES YOUR"
"PRUDENT KINDNESS ADVISE?"
"THE WORLD IS A LITTLE"
"CLOSED TO ME, AH?"
"BY THE THINGS I"
"HAVE DONE FOR YOU."
"I SEE, MEDEA, YOU HAVE"
"BEEN A VERY CAREFUL"
"MERCHANT OF BENEFITS."
"YOU FORGET NONE, YOU"
"KEEP A STRICT RECKONING."
"BUT, SOME LITTLE THINGS THAT I"
"ON MY SIDE HAVE DONE FOR YOU"
"OUGHT TO BE IN THE BOOKS TOO:"
"FOR EXAMPLE, I CARRIED YOU"
"OUT OF THE DIRT AND SUPERSTITION"
"OF ASIATIC COLCHIS"
"INTO THE RATIONAL SUNLIGHT OF"
"GREECE, AND THE MARBLE MUSIC"
"OF THE GREEK TEMPLES:"
"IS THAT NO BENEFIT?"
"I HAVE BROUGHT YOU TO MEET"
"THE FIRST MINDS OF OUR TIME,"
"AND TO SPEAK AS AN EQUAL"
"WITH THE GREAT HEROES"
"AND RULERS OF CITIES:"
"IS THAT NO BENEFIT?"
"HERE YOU ARE FAMOUS. WHO"
"WOULD HAVE SPOKEN YOUR NAME"
"HAD YOUR DAYS RUN BY ON"
"THAT LAST EDGE OF THE WORLD?"
"THAT BLOOD AND FILTH"
"I SAVED YOU FROM,"
"SO THAT ONE DAY YOU MAY"
"VENT ON ME THIS VIOLENCE,"
"THIS BARBARIAN"
"GRATITUDE?"
"AND NOW, THIS GRIEVOUS"
"THING THAT YOU HATE ME FOR:"
"THAT I MARRIED CREON'S"
"YOUNG DAUGHTER, LITTLE CREUSA:"
"DO YOU THINK I DID IT"
"LIKE A BOY OR A WOMAN,"
"OUT OF BLIND PASSION?"
"NO, I DID IT TO ACHIEVE"
"POWER HERE;"
"AND I'D HAVE USED THAT POWER"
"TO PROTECT YOU AND OUR SONS,"
"BUT YOUR JEALOUS MADNESS"
"HAS MUDDLED EVERYTHING."
"AND FINALLY: AS TO THOSE ACTS"
"OF SERVICE YOU SO LOUDLY BOAST:"
"WHOM DO I THANK FOR THEM?"
"I THANK DIVINE VENUS,"
"THE GODDESS WHO"
"MAKES GIRLS FALL IN LOVE."
"YOU DID THEM BECAUSE"
"YOU HAD TO DO THEM;"
"VENUS COMPELLED YOU;"
"I ENJOYED HER FAVOR."
"A MAN DARES THINGS, YOU"
"KNOW, HE MAKES HIS ADVENTURE"
"IN THE COLD EYE OF DEATH;"
"AND IF THE GODS CARE FOR HIM"
"THEY APPOINT AN INSTRUMENT"
"TO SAVE HIM; IF NOT, HE DIES."
"YOU WERE THAT"
"INSTRUMENT."
"HERE IT IS:"
"THE LOWEST."
"THE OBSCENE DREGS; THE"
"SLIME AND THE LOATHING;"
"THE MUDDY BOTTOM"
"OF A MOUTHED CUP:"
"WHEN A SCOUNDREL"
"BEGINS TO INVOKE THE GODS."
"YOU HAD BETTER"
"GO, JASON."
"VULGARITY IS A CONTAGIOUS"
"DISEASE; AND IN A MOMENT"
"WHAT COULD I DO BUT SPIT"
"AT YOU LIKE A PEASANT,"
"OR CURSE YOU LIKE"
"A DRUNKEN SLAVE."
"YOU HAD BETTER TAKE YOURSELF"
"BACK TO "LITTLE CREUSA"."
"MEDEA, I CAME TO HELP YOU"
"AND SAVE YOU IF POSSIBLE."
"YOUR HELP IS"
"NOT WANTED."
"GO. GO."
"I WANT TO SEE"
"MY BOYS..."
"GO QUICKLY."
"YOURS THE"
"REGRET THEN."
"THIS IS IT."
"I DID NOT SURELY KNOW"
"IT: LOATHING IS ALL."
"THIS FLESH HE HAS"
"TOUCHED AND FOULED."
"THESE HANDS THAT"
"WROUGHT FOR HIM,"
"THESE KNEES THAT"
"RAN HIS ERRANDS."
"THIS BODY"
"THAT TOOK HIS..."
"WHAT THEY CALL LOVE,"
"AND MADE CHILDREN OF IT."
"IF I COULD PEEL OFF THE FLESH,"
"THE CHILDREN, THE MEMORY."
"WHAT IS SHE DOING, THAT WOMAN,"
"STARING LIKE STONE, STARING?"
"OH, SHE HAS"
"MOVED NOW."
"ANNIHILATION..."
"THE WORD IS PURE"
"MUSIC: ANNIHILATION."
"TO ANNIHILATE THE PAST"
"- IS NOT POSSIBLE:"
"BUT ITS FRUIT IN THE"
"PRESENT CAN BE NIPPED OFF."
"AM I TO LOOK IN MY SONS' EYES"
"AND SEE JASON'S FOREVER?"
"BETTER TO BE CLEAN"
"BONES ON THE SHORE."
"WHITE BONES ON"
"THE BLACK SEA SHORE."
"OH, BUT THAT'S FAR."
"NOT YET. CORINTH"
"MUST HOWL FIRST."
"PEACE AND PITY"
"ARE DEPARTED;"
"HATRED IS HERE, HATRED IS HEAVY;"
"IT CLINGS TO THE EARTH."
"LOVE BLOWS AWAY,"
"HATRED REMAINS."
"WOMEN HATE WAR, BUT"
"MEN WILL WAGE IT AGAIN."
"WOMEN MAY HATE THEIR HUSBANDS,"
"AND SONS THEIR FATHERS,"
"BUT WOMEN WILL NEVER"
"HATE THEIR OWN CHILDREN."
"BUT AS FOR ME, I WILL"
"DO GOOD TO MY HUSBAND,"
"I WILL LOVE MY SONS AND"
"DAUGHTERS, AND ADORE THE GODS."
"IF I SHOULD GO INTO THE"
"HOUSE WITH A SHARP KNIFE"
"TO THE MAN"
"AND HIS BRIDE..."
"OR IF I COULD FIRE THE ROOM THEY"
"SLEEP IN, AND HEAR THEM WAKE"
"IN THE WHITE OF THE FIRE,"
"AND HOWL TO EACH OTHER,"
"AND HOWL LIKE DOGS,"
"AND HOWL AND DIE."
"BUT I MIGHT FAIL; I"
"MIGHT BE CUT DOWN FIRST;"
"THE KNIFE MIGHT TURN IN MY"
"HAND, OR THE FIRE NOT BURN,"
"AND MY ENEMIES"
"COULD LAUGH AT ME."
"NO: I HAVE SUBTLER MEANS,"
"AND MORE DEADLY CRUEL."
"I HAVE MY DARK ART THAT"
"FOOLS CALL WITCHCRAFT."
"NOT FOR NOTHING I HAVE"
"WORSHIPPED THE WILD GRAY"
"GODDESS THAT WALKS IN THE DARK,"
"THE WISE ONE, THE TERRIBLE ONE,"
"THE SWEET HUNTRESS,"
"FLOWER OF NIGHT, HECATE,"
"IN MY HOUSE"
"AT MY HEARTH."
"MY LADY, HE WAS LEAVING"
"CREON'S DOOR: HE IS COMING."
"AEGEUS IS COMING!"
"THE POWER OF ATHENS."
"I WILL NOT SEE HIM. GO"
"BACK AND TELL HIM SO."
"ANCIENT GODDESS TO WHOM I AND"
"MY PEOPLE MAKE THE SACRIFICE"
"OF BLACK LAMBS AND BLACK"
"FEMALE HOUNDS, HOLY ONE,"
"HAUNTER OF CROSSROADS,"
"QUEEN OF NIGHT, HECATE,"
"HELP ME NOW: TO REMEMBER"
"IN MY MIND THE USE OF THE"
"VENOMOUS FIRE, THE MAGIC"
"SONG, AND THE SHARP GEMS."
"HE IS HERE, MY LADY."
"ATHENS IS HERE."
"REJOICE, MEDEA!"
"THERE IS NO FAIRER GREETING"
"FROM FRIEND TO FRIEND."
"MEDEA, HAIL"
"AND REJOICE."
"REJOICE? IT MAY BE SO."
"IT MAY BE I SHALL REJOICE"
"BEFORE THE SUN SETS."
"MEDEA! WHAT HAS"
"HAPPENED TO YOU?"
"NOTHING; I AM QUITE WELL:"
"FOOLS TROUBLE ME."
"WHERE ARE YOU TRAVELING"
"FROM, AEGEUS?"
"FROM DELPHI, WHERE"
"I WENT TO CONSULT"
"THE ANCIENT"
"ORACLE OF APOLLO."
"OH, DELPHI. DID YOU"
"GET A GOOD ANSWER?"
"AN OBSCURE ONE."
"SOME GOD OR OTHER"
"HAS MADE ME UNABLE TO BEGET"
"A CHILD: THAT IS MY TROUBLE:"
"BUT THE ORACLE NEVER"
"GIVES PLAIN RESPONSES."
"I TELL YOU THESE THINGS SO"
"THAT YOU MIGHT HELP ME"
"WITH THE"
"GOD'S MEANING."
"WHAT DID APOLLO"
"SAY TO YOU?"
"THAT I MUST NOT UNLOOSE THE"
"HANGING FOOT OF THE WINESKIN"
"UNTIL I RETURN TO THE"
"HEARTH OF MY FATHERS."
"THE HANGING FOOT"
"OF THE WINESKIN."
"YOU'VE NEVER"
"HAD A CHILD?"
"NO, AND IT"
"IS BITTERNESS."
"BUT WHEN MISFORTUNE COMES"
"IT IS BITTER TO HAVE CHILDREN,"
"AND WATCH THEIR STARLIKE"
"FACES GROW DIM TO ENDURE IT."
"WHEN DEATH COMES, MEDEA,"
"IT IS, FOR A CHILDLESS MAN,"
"UTTER DESPAIR,"
"DARKNESS, EXTINCTION."
"ONE'S CHILDREN ARE"
"THE LIFE AFTER DEATH."
"DO YOU FEEL IT SO?"
"THEN, IF YOU HAD A DOG-EYED"
"ENEMY AND NEEDED ABSOLUTE"
"VENGEANCE, YOU'D KILL"
"THE MAN'S CHILDREN FIRST."
"UNCHILD HIM, HA?"
"AND THEN UNLIFE HIM."
"I DO NOT CARE TO"
"THINK OF SUCH HORRORS."
"I HAVE NO"
"COMPLETE ENEMY."
"WHAT IS IT, MEDEA?"
"WHAT'S THE MATTER?"
"I WOULD NOT HURT"
"MY CHILDREN."
"THEIR FATHER"
"HURTS THEM."
"WHAT DO YOU MEAN? JASON?"
"WHAT HAS JASON DONE?"
"HE HAS CAST ME OFF AND MARRIED"
"CREON'S YOUNG DAUGHTER."
"AND CREON, THIS VERY DAY, IS"
"DRIVING US INTO BLACK EXILE."
"YOU MEAN YOU'RE"
"DRIVEN OUT INTO EXILE?"
"WHY THAT?"
"BECAUSE OUR PRESENCE HERE IS"
"EMBARRASSING TO THE YOUNG BRIDE."
"DO YOU NOT THINK SUCH MEN"
"OUGHT TO BE PUNISHED, AEGEUS?"
"WHERE WILL YOU GO?"
"IF THERE IS ANY RIGHTNESS"
"ON EARTH OR IN HEAVEN,"
"THEY WILL BE"
"PUNISHED."
"WHERE WILL YOU"
"GO TO, MEDEA?"
"WHAT? TO DEATH"
"OF COURSE."
"OH, SHE IS ALL BEWILDERED, SIR,"
"IN THE DEEP STORM AND OCEAN"
"OF GRIEF, OR SHE WOULD ASK"
"OF YOU REFUGE IN ATHENS."
"AH? SO I SHOULD."
"AEGEUS, WILL YOU"
"SHELTER ME IN ATHENS?"
"IF YOU BY YOUR OWN MEANS COME TO"
"ATHENS I WILL TAKE CARE OF YOU."
"I COULD REPAY"
"YOU FOR IT."
"I KNOW THE REMEDIES"
"THAT MAKE A DRY STICK"
"FLAME INTO"
"FLOWER AND FRUIT."
"YOU'D CURE"
"MY STERILITY?"
"I COULD DO SO. BUT I"
"HAVE CERTAIN ENEMIES."
"IF POWERFUL ENEMIES CAME"
"BAYING FOR MY BLOOD"
"WOULD YOU"
"PROTECT ME?"
"COME THE FOUR ENDS OF THE"
"WORLD, THEY WILL NOT BREAK IN."
"YOU'RE SAFE THERE:"
"I AM YOUR PLEDGE."
"WILL YOU SWEAR"
"IT, AEGEUS?"
"WHY? I PROMISED."
"I TRUST YOU: THE OATH IS FORMAL:"
"YOUR CURE DEPENDS ON IT."
"DO YOU SWEAR BY THE FRUITFUL"
"EARTH AND HIGH SHINING HEAVEN"
"TO PROTECT ME IN"
"ATHENS AGAINST ALL MEN?"
"I SWEAR IT."
"IF YOU SHOULD BREAK IT, THE"
"EARTH WILL GIVE YOU NO BREAD"
"BUT DEATH, AND THE SKY"
"NO LIGHT BUT DARKNESS."
"I WILL NOT BREAK IT."
"YOU MUST REPEAT"
"THE WORDS, AEGEUS."
"IF I BREAK IT, THE EARTH WILL"
"GIVE ME NO BREAD BUT DEATH,"
"AND THE SKY NO"
"LIGHT BUT DARKNESS."
"YOU HAVE SWORN: THE"
"GODS HAVE HEARD YOU."
"WHEN WILL YOU"
"COME TO ATHENS?"
"TO ATHENS? WHY, IF I COME,"
"IF I LIVE, IT WILL BE SOON."
"THE YOKE'S ON THE"
"NECKS OF THE HORSES."
"I HAVE SOME THINGS TO"
"DO THAT MEN WILL TALK OF"
"AFTERWARDS IN"
"HUSHED VOICES:"
"WHILE I AND MY CHILDREN"
"SAFE IN ATHENS LAUGH."
"IS THAT IT?"
"FAREWELL AEGEUS."
"MAY THE GODS"
"COMFORT YOU, MEDEA."
"FAREWELL,"
"LADIES OF CORINTH."
"FAIR BE THE GALE BEHIND YOU,"
"SIR, AND THE WAY AHEAD."
"WHAT IS SHE PLOTTING"
"IN HER DEEP MIND?"
"SHE IS JUGGLING"
"WITH DEATH AND LIFE"
"LIKE A JUGGLER WITH A BLACK"
"BALL AND A WHITE BALL."
"OH GOD, PROTECTOR OF EXILES,"
"LORD OF THE HOLY SKY, LEAD US TO"
"THE HIGH ROCK THAT ATHENA LOVES,"
"AND THE OLIVE GARLAND OF ATHENS."
"ATHENS IS BEAUTIFUL"
"AS A LAMP ON A ROCK."
"THE PEOPLE OF ATHENS"
"FAVORED THROUGH THE AGES,"
"WALK WITH GRACE THROUGH"
"THE SPARKLING AIR,"
"THEIR SOULS NOURISHED BY"
"KNOWLEDGE AND WISDOM."
"HOW CAN SUCH A"
"PEOPLE OFFER SHELTER"
"TO A WOMAN SO FILLED"
"WITH HATRED AND MURDER?"
"HOW CAN ONE"
"WISH TO DIE?"
"HOW CAN THAT WOMAN"
"BE DROWNED IN SORROW"
"AND BEWILDERED"
"WITH HATRED?"
"FOR ONLY TO BE ALIVE AND TO"
"SEE THE LIGHT IS BEAUTIFUL."
"HUSH."
"AS YOU SAY."
"WHAT A MARVELOUS PRIVILEGE"
"IT IS MERELY TO BE ALIVE."
"AND HOW FOOLISH IT WOULD BE"
"TO SPEND THE ONE DAY OF LIFE"
"THAT REMAINS TO ME -"
"AT LEAST IN CORINTH"
"- THIS TAG END OF ONE DAY"
"ON TEARS AND HATRED."
"RATHER I SHOULD REJOICE,"
"AND SING, AND GIVE GIFTS;"
"THEY SAY GOLD WILL BUY"
"ANYTHING; EVEN FRIENDSHIP,"
"EVEN LOVE: AT LEAST IN GREECE,"
"AMONG YOU CIVILIZED PEOPLE,"
"YOU REASONABLE AND"
"CIVILIZED HELLENES."
"I STILL HAVE TWO OR THREE"
"OF THE TREASURES THAT"
"I BROUGHT FROM HOME,"
"THINGS OF PURE PRECIOUS GOLD"
"WHICH A GOD GAVE TO"
"THE KINGS, MY ANCESTORS."
"IS IT LATE? IT SEEMS TO ME"
"THAT THE LIGHT DARKENS."
"IS IT EVENING?"
"NO, NO, A CLOUD."
"I HOPE FOR THUNDER:"
"LET THE SKY RAGE:"
"MY GIFTS WILL"
"SHINE THE BRIGHTER."
"LISTEN, OLD WOMAN: I WANT YOU"
"TO GO TO JASON AND TELL HIM,"
"TELL HIM...."
"TELL HIM I AM SICK OF"
"HATING AND WEARY OF EVIL;"
"I WISH FOR PEACE. I WISH"
"TO SEND PRECIOUS GIFTS"
"TO THAT PALE GIRL"
"WITH THE YELLOW HAIR"
"WHOM HE HAS MARRIED: TELL"
"HIM TO COME AND TAKE THEM,"
"AND TO KISS HIS BOYS"
"BEFORE WE GO INTO EXILE."
"TELL HIM TO"
"COME SPEEDILY."
"NOW GO,"
"GO AND FIND HIM."
"OH, I'LL GO..."
"BUT I AM TERRIFIED."
"I DO NOT KNOW."
"I AM TERRIFIED."
"PRAY TO THE GODS, WOMEN, TO KEEP"
"EVIL BIRDS FROM OUR HEARTS!"
"THESE ARE THE GIFTS I AM"
"SENDING TO THE YOUNG BRIDE:"
"THE GOD OF THE SUN GAVE"
"THEM TO MY FATHER'S FATHER,"
"AND I HAVE KEPT"
"THEM IN THE DEEP CHEST"
"FOR SOME HIGH OCCASION:"
"WHICH HAS NOW COME."
"I HAVE GREAT JOY IN GIVING THESE"
"JEWELS TO CREON'S DAUGHTER,"
"FOR THE GLORY OF LIFE"
"CONSISTS IN BEING GENEROUS"
"TO ONE'S FRIENDS, AND"
"MERCILESS TO ONE'S ENEMIES."
"YOU KNOW WHAT A FRIEND"
"SHE HAS BEEN TO ME."
"ALL CORINTH KNOWS."
"THE SLAVES TALK OF IT."
"THE OLD STONES IN THE WALLS"
"HAVE WATCHED AND LAUGHED."
"SEE, IT IS"
"ALMOST ALIVE."
"GOLD IS A LIVING THING:"
"SUCH PURE GOLD."
"BUT WHEN HER BODY HAS"
"WARMED IT, HOW IT WILL SHINE."
"IT IS INTOLERABLE"
"TO SIT AND WAIT."
"YOU'RE SURE HE'S"
"COMING? YOU'RE SURE?"
"HE SAID HE WOULD."
"LET HIM MAKE"
"HASTE THEN."
"FRIGHTENING IRRATIONAL"
"THINGS HAVE HAPPENED LATELY;"
"THE FACE OF NATURE IS"
"FLAWED WITH OMENS."
"YESTERDAY EVENING A SLAVE"
"CAME UP TO THE HARBOR-GATE"
"CARRYING A BASKET OF NEW-CAUGHT"
"FISH: ONE OF THE FISH TOOK FIRE"
"AND BURNED IN THE WET"
"BASKET WITH A HIGH FLAME:"
"THE THING WAS WITNESSED"
"BY MANY PERSONS."
"AND A BLACK"
"LEOPARD WAS SEEN"
"GLIDING THROUGH"
"THE MARKET PLACE."
"YOU HAVEN'T TOLD ME YET: DO YOU"
"NOT THINK CREON'S DAUGHTER"
"WILL BE GLAD"
"OF THOSE GIFTS?"
"OH, MEDEA, TOO MUCH WEALTH"
"IS SOMETIMES DREADFUL."
"SHE'LL BE GLAD,"
"HOWEVER."
"SHE'LL TAKE THEM AND PUT"
"THEM ON, SHE'LL WEAR THEM,"
"SHE'LL STRUT IN THEM."
"SHE'LL PEACOCK IN THEM."
"I SEE HIM"
"COMING NOW."
"THE WHOLE PALACE"
"WILL ADMIRE HER."
"STAND ASIDE FROM ME, WOMEN,"
"WHILE I MAKE MY SICK PEACE."
"WELL, I HAVE COME."
"I TELL YOU PLAINLY, NOT FOR"
"YOUR SAKE: THE CHILDREN'S."
"YOUR WOMAN TELLS ME"
"YOU HAVE YOUR WITS AGAIN"
"AND ARE WILLING TO LOOK"
"BEYOND YOUR OWN WOES."
"IT APPEARS"
"DOUBTFUL."
"WHERE ARE"
"THE BOYS?"
"I'VE MADE INQUIRY: I CAN FIND"
"FOSTERAGE FOR THEM IN EPIDAURUS;"
"OR ANY OTHER OF SEVERAL CITIES"
"THAT ARE CREON'S FRIENDS."
"I'LL VISIT THEM"
"FROM TIME TO TIME,"
"AND SEE THAT"
"THEY'RE WELL KEPT."
"YOU MEAN... TAKE"
"THEM FROM ME!"
"BE CAREFUL, JASON. I"
"AM NOT PATIENT YET."
"I AM THE ONE WHO LABORED"
"IN PAIN TO BEAR THEM,"
"I CANNOT SMILE"
"WHILE I LOSE THEM."
"BUT I AM LEARNING;"
"I AM LEARNING."
"NO, JASON: I WILL NOT"
"GIVE UP MY LITTLE ONES"
"TO THE COLD CARE"
"OF STRANGERS."
"IT WILL BE FAR BETTER FOR THEM"
"TO SHARE MY WANDERING OCEAN"
"OF BEGGARY AND BLEAK EXILE:"
"THEY'LL STILL BE LOVED;"
"AND WHEN THE SKY RAGES I'LL HOLD"
"THEM WARM AGAINST MY HEART."
"I LOVE THEM, JASON."
"ONLY IF YOU WOULD KEEP THEM AND"
"CARE FOR THEM HERE IN CORINTH,"
"I MIGHT CONSENT."
"GLADLY, BUT"
"THEY ARE EXILED."
"GLADLY I'D DO IT: BUT YOU"
"UNDERSTAND THEY ARE EXILED,"
"AS YOU ARE."
"INNOCENT; FOR MY"
"REBELLION. THAT'S BLACK!"
"FORGIVE ME,"
"JASON, AS I DO YOU."
"WE HAVE HAD TOO MUCH WRATH,"
"AND OUR ACTS ARE CLOSING ON US."
"ON ME I MEAN."
"RETRIBUTION IS FROM THE GODS,"
"AND IT BREAKS OUR HEARTS:"
"BUT YOU FEEL NO GUILT, YOU FEAR"
"NOTHING, NOTHING CAN TOUCH YOU."
"IT IS WONDERFUL TO STAND"
"SERENE ABOVE THE FATES"
"WHILE"
"EARTHLINGS WINCE."
"IF IT LASTS. IT"
"DOESN'T ALWAYS LAST."
"DO YOU LOVE"
"THEM, JASON?"
"CERTAINLY. THE CHILDREN?"
"CERTAINLY! I AM THEIR FATHER."
"IF ANYTHING HAPPENED TO"
"THEM, WOULD YOU BE GRIEVED?"
"NOTHING WILL HAPPEN TO"
"THEM, MEDEA, WHILE IN MY CARE."
"REST YOUR MIND ON IT."
"YOU MUST PARDON ME: IT IS NOT"
"POSSIBLE TO BE CERTAIN OF THAT."
"IF THEY WERE KILLED AND THEIR"
"BLOOD RAN ON THE FLOOR OF THE"
"HOUSE OR DOWN THE DEEP EARTH"
"- WOULD YOU BE GRIEVED?"
"YOU HAVE A SICK MIND."
"WHAT A WEAK THING A WOMAN"
"IS, ALWAYS DREAMING OF EVIL."
"YES! AFTER I'D CUT THEIR"
"KILLER INTO RED COLLOPS:"
"I'D BE GRIEVED."
"THAT IS TRUE: VENGEANCE"
"MAKES GRIEF BEARABLE."
"AND KNOWING THAT -"
"CREON'S DAUGHTER, YOUR WIFE,"
"NO DOUBT WILL BREED"
"MANY OTHER BOYS."
"BUT IF SOMETHING SHOULD"
"HAPPEN TO CREON'S DAUGHTER..."
"ENOUGH, MEDEA."
"TOO MUCH. BE SILENT!"
"I AM TO CONCLUDE THAT"
"YOU LOVE CREON'S DAUGHTER"
"MORE THAN YOUR SONS."
"THEY'LL HAVE TO TAKE THE"
"SAD JOURNEY WITH ME."
"TELL THE BOYS TO COME OUT"
"AND BID THEIR FATHER FAREWELL."
"I COULD TAKE THEM FROM"
"YOU BY FORCE, MEDEA."
"TRY IT, YOU...!"
"COME, JASON, LET'S"
"BE FRIENDS AT LAST!"
"I KNOW YOU"
"LOVE THEM."
"IF THEY COULD STAY HERE IN"
"CORINTH I'D BE CONTENT."
"I ASKED IT, AND"
"HE REFUSED IT."
"YOU ASKED HIM TO TAKE"
"MY CHILDREN FROM ME!"
"I AM QUITE PATIENT"
"NOW; I HAVE LEARNED."
"COME, BOYS, COME:"
"SPEAK TO YOUR FATHER."
"NO, NO, WE'RE"
"FRIENDS AGAIN."
"WE'RE NOT"
"ANGRY ANYMORE."
"BIG BOYS,"
"TALL FELLOWS,"
"WHY YOU'VE GROWN"
"UP SINCE I SAW YOU."
"SMILE FOR HIM, CHILDREN."
"GIVE HIM YOUR HANDS."
"I THINK HE'S AFRAID"
"OF YOUR HELMET, SIR."
"MY SONS! MY SONS!"
"I'LL TEACH YOU NOT"
"TO FEAR HELMETS."
"THE ENEMY WILL RUN FROM YOURS"
"WHEN YOU GROW UP TO SIZE."
"AND IN TIME YOU'LL BOTH"
"BE LEADERS OF CORINTH."
"YOU, MY CAPTAIN."
"DON'T GIVE THEM"
"TO HIM, MEDEA."
"IF YOU DO, IT WILL"
"ACHE FOREVER."
"YOU HAVE REFUGE: TAKE THEM"
"THERE. ATHENS IS BEAUTIFUL."
"SILENT!"
"LOOK AT HIM: HE"
"LOVES THEM, AH?"
"THEREFORE HIS DEAR CHILDREN"
"ARE NOT GOING TO THAT CITY"
"BUT A DARKER CITY, WHERE"
"NO GAMES ARE PLAYED,"
"NO MUSIC IS HEARD."
"WATCH AND SEE."
"WATCH THIS MAN, WOMEN:"
"HE IS GOING TO WEEP."
"I THINK HE IS GOING TO"
"WEEP BLOOD AND QUITE SOON"
"AND MUCH MORE"
"THAN I HAVE WEPT."
"WATCH AND"
"KEEP SILENCE."
"JASON, ARE THE BOYS"
"VERY DEAR TO YOU?"
"I THINK I AM SATISFIED"
"THAT YOU LOVE THEM."
"THESE TWO"
"YOUNG HEROES...."
"GOD'S HAND, MEDEA, WHAT"
"IS IT? WHAT'S THE MATTER?"
"NOTHING. IT IS HARD"
"TO LET THEM GO."
"THIS I HAVE THOUGHT OF:"
"YOU WILL TAKE THEM TO"
"CREON'S DAUGHTER, YOUR WIFE,"
"AND MAKE THEM KNEEL TO HER"
"AND ASK HER TO ASK HER FATHER TO"
"LET THEM STAY HERE IN CORINTH."
"AND I'LL PUT GIFTS"
"IN THEIR HANDS."
"PEOPLE SAY THAT GIFTS WILL"
"PERSUADE EVEN THE GODS."
"IS IT WELL THOUGHT OF?"
"WILL SHE LISTEN TO US?"
"WHY, YES IF I ASK IT."
"SHE'D DENY ME NOTHING."
"AND I THINK YOU'RE"
"RIGHT, SHE CAN RULE CREON."
"BRING ME THOSE"
"GOLD THINGS."
"DEAR ONES, BRAVE"
"LITTLE FALCONS,"
"LITTLE PAWNS"
"OF MY AGONY..."
"GO ASK THAT PROUD BREASTLESS"
"GIRL OF HER BITTER CHARITY"
"WHETHER SHE WILL LET YOU NEST"
"HERE UNTIL YOUR WINGS FLEDGE,"
"WHILE FAR YOUR MOTHER"
"FLIES THE DARK STORM."
"I'M SORRY FOR YOU,"
"MEDEA. PARTING IS HARD."
"I CAN BEAR IT."
"AND WORSE TOO."
"DON'T TOUCH THE GOLD,"
"OR IT MIGHT TARNISH."
"WHY, THESE ARE A"
"KING'S TREASURES."
"YOU SHOULDN'T,"
"MEDEA: IT'S TOO MUCH."
"CREON'S HOUSE HAS"
"ENOUGH GOLD OF ITS OWN."
"OH, IF SHE'LL"
"WEAR THEM."
"WHAT SHOULD I WANT WITH"
"WOVEN GOLDEN VANITIES?"
"BLACK IS MY WEAR."
"THE WOMAN OUGHT TO BE VERY"
"HAPPY WITH SUCH JEWELS"
"- AND SUCH A HUSBAND, AH?"
"HER SUN IS RISING, MINE GOING"
"DOWN: I HOPE TO A RED SUNSET."
"GOLD IS TOO HEAVY A"
"BURDEN FOR LITTLE HANDS."
"CARRY THEM, YOU, UNTIL"
"YOU COME TO THE PALACE."
"FAREWELL, SWEET BOYS:"
"BRAVE LITTLE"
"TRUDGING PILGRIMS"
"FROM THE BLACK WAVE"
"TO THE WHITE DESERT."
"TAKE THE STUFF IN, BE SURE"
"YOU LAY IT IN HER OWN HANDS."
"COME BACK AND TELL"
"ME WHAT HAPPENS."
"TELL ME"
"WHAT HAPPENS."
"REJOICE, WOMEN."
"THE GIFTS ARE GIVEN."
"THE BAIT IS LAID."
"THE GODS ROLL THEIR GREAT"
"EYES OVER CREON'S HOUSE"
"AND QUIETLY SMILE: FOR NO RAT"
"NOR CONY WOULD CREEP INTO"
"THE OPEN UNDISGUISED TRAPS THAT"
"TAKE THE PROUD RACE OF MAN."
"THAT ROBE OF BRIGHT-FLOWING"
"GOLD, THAT BRIDE-VEIL,"
"THAT FISH-NET TO CATCH A"
"YOUNG SLENDER SALMON -"
"NOT MUTE, SHE'LL SING: HER"
"DELICATE BODY WRITHES IN"
"THE MESHES, THE GOLDEN"
"WREATH BINDS HER BRIGHT HEAD"
"WITH LIGHT: SHE'LL DANCE,"
"SHE'LL SING LOUDLY:"
"WOULD I WERE THERE TO HEAR"
"IT, THAT PROUD ONE HOWLING."
"LOOK, THE SUN'S OUT AGAIN,"
"THE CLOUDS ARE GONE,"
"ALL'S GAY AND CLEAR."
"I WISH THE DEEP EARTH"
"WOULD OPEN AND SWALLOW US"
"- BEFORE I DO"
"WHAT COMES NEXT."
"I WISH ALL LIFE"
"WOULD PERISH,"
"AND THE HOLY GODS"
"IN HIGH HEAVEN DIE,"
"BEFORE MY LITTLE ONES"
"COME HOME TO MY HANDS."
"IT WOULD BE BETTER FOR YOU,"
"MEDEA, IF THE EARTH DID OPEN"
"HER JAWS AND TAKE YOU"
"DOWN INTO DARKNESS."
"BUT ONE THING YOU WILL"
"NOT DO, FOR YOU CANNOT,"
"YOU WILL NOT HURT"
"YOUR OWN CHILDREN."
"NO BLOOD-LAPPING BEAST OF THE"
"FIELD, SHE-BEAR NOR LIONESS,"
"NOR THE LEAN WOLF-BITCH,"
"HURTS HER OWN TENDER WHELPS!"
"HOW COULD THAT GIRL'S"
"DEATH SLAKE ME?"
"I AM SICK"
"WITH TERROR."
"I'LL RUN TO THE PALACE,"
"I'LL WARN THEM."
"WILL YOU?"
"GO. GO IF YOU WILL. GOD"
"AND MY VENGEFUL GODDESS"
"ARE DOING THESE THINGS:"
"YOU CANNOT PREVENT THEM,"
"BUT YOU COULD EASILY"
"FALL INTO THE SAME FIRE."
"I AM AFRAID TO GO."
"YOU ARE WISE."
"ANYONE RUNNING BETWEEN"
"ME AND MY JUSTICE"
"WILL REAP WHAT"
"NO MAN WANTS."
"NOT JUSTICE: VENGEANCE."
"YOU HAVE SUFFERED EVIL,"
"YOU WISH TO INFLICT EVIL."
"I DO ACCORDING TO NATURE,"
"WHAT I HAVE TO DO."
"I DREAMED THAT SOMEONE"
"GAVE GOOD FOR EVIL,"
"AND THE WORLD"
"WAS AMAZED."
"ONLY A COWARD OR A MADMAN"
"GIVES GOOD FOR EVIL..."
"DID YOU HEAR A THIN MUSIC"
"LIKE A GIRL SCREAMING?"
"OR DID I PERHAPS"
"IMAGINE IT?"
"HARK, IT IS MUSIC."
"LET ME GO, MEDEA! I'LL BE"
"MUTE, I'LL SPEAK TO NO ONE."
"I CANNOT BEAR. LET"
"ME GO TO MY HOUSE!"
"YOU WILL STAY HERE,"
"AND WATCH THE END."
"YOU WILL BE QUIET,"
"YOU WOMEN."
"YOU CAME TO SEE HOW"
"THE BARBARIAN WOMAN"
"ENDURES BETRAYAL:"
"WATCH AND YOU'LL KNOW."
"BLOOD IS THE SEED OF BLOOD,"
"HUNDREDFOLD THE HARVEST,"
"THE GLEANERS THAT FOLLOW IT,"
"THEIR FEET ARE CRIMSON."
"THE DEMON COMES"
"THROUGH THE LOCKED DOOR"
"AND STRANGLES"
"THE CHILD."
"SEE THE WHIRLWIND HANGING"
"FROM THE BLACK SKY"
"LIKE A TWISTED ROPE,"
"LIKE AN ERECT SERPENT,"
"ITS TAIL TEARS"
"THE EARTH,"
"IT IS BRAIDED OF DUST AND"
"LIGHTNING, WHO WILL FLY IN IT?"
"LET ME HIDE MYSELF FROM"
"THESE NIGHT-SHORING PILLARS"
"AND THE DARK DOOR!"
"HAVE PATIENCE,"
"WOMEN. BE QUIET."
"I AM QUITE SURE"
"SOMETHING HAS HAPPENED;"
"PRESENTLY SOMEONE"
"WILL BRING US NEWS."
"LOOK! THE CHILDREN"
"ARE COMING."
"THEY HAVE BRIGHT THINGS IN THEIR"
"HANDS: THEIR FACES ARE CLEAR"
"AND JOYOUS: WAS ALL THAT"
"FEAR A DREAM, A DREAM?"
"REJOICE, MEDEA, I"
"BRING GOOD NEWS."
"THE PRINCESS GRACIOUSLY RECEIVED"
"YOUR PRESENTS AND SMILED:"
"IT IS PEACE"
"BETWEEN YOU."
"SHE HAS WELCOMED THE LITTLE"
"BOYS, THEY ARE SAFE FROM EXILE."
"AT FIRST SHE LOOKED ANGRILY"
"AT THEM AND TURNED AWAY,"
"BUT JASON SAID "DON'T"
"BE ANGRY AT YOUR FRIENDS."
"YOU OUGHT TO LOVE"
"THOSE WHOM I LOVE."
"LOOK WHAT THEY'VE"
"BROUGHT YOU, DEAR"."
"AND SHE LOOKED AND SAW IN THE"
"DARK BOXES THE BRILLIANT GOLD:"
"SHE SMILED THEN,"
"AND MARVELED AT IT."
"AND AFTERWARD SHE CARESSED"
"THE CHILDREN; SHE EVEN SAID"
"THAT THIS LITTLE ONE'S HAIR"
"WAS LIKE FINE-SPUN SILK."
"THEN JASON GAVE THEM THESE"
"TOYS AND WE CAME AWAY."
"YES. IF THIS WERE ALL..."
"IF THIS WERE ALL, OLD MAN, I'D"
"HAVE YOUR BONY LOINS BEATEN"
"TO A BLOOD-FROTH FOR THE"
"GOOD NEWS YOU BRING."
"THERE'S MORE, HOWEVER."
"IT WILL SOON COME."
"OH! TAKE THEM"
"AWAY FROM ME!"
"I CANNOT BEAR,"
"I CANNOT BEAR."
"CHILDREN, COME QUICKLY."
"IF THERE IS ANY MERCY OR"
"FORBEARANCE IN HEAVEN"
"LET IT REACH DOWN TO"
"TOUCH THAT DARK MIND"
"AND SAVE IT FROM"
"WHAT IT DREAMS."
"WHERE IS MEDEA?"
"WHAT HAS HAPPENED?"
"WHAT HORROR DRIVES YOU?"
"ARE SPEARS HUNTING"
"BEHIND YOU?"
"FLEE FOR YOUR"
"LIFE, MEDEA!"
"I AM JASON'S MAN, BUT"
"YOU WERE GOOD TO ME"
"WHILE I WAS HERE"
"IN THE HOUSE."
"CAN YOU HEAR ME?"
"ESCAPE, MEDEA!"
"I HEAR YOU."
"DRAW BREATH; SAY QUIETLY"
"WHAT YOU HAVE SEEN."
"MY EARS RING WITH THE CRYING,"
"MY EYES ARE SCALDED."
"SHE PUT ON THE"
"GOLD GARMENTS...."
"DID YOU DO IT, MEDEA?"
"SPEAK QUIETLY."
"YOU ARE AVENGED. YOU"
"ARE HORRIBLY AVENGED."
"IT IS TOO MUCH. THE"
"GODS WILL HATE YOU."
"THAT IS MY CARE. DID"
"ANYONE DIE WITH HER?"
"CREON!"
"TELL ME ALL THAT YOU"
"SAW. SPEAK SLOWLY."
"HE TRIED TO SAVE HER"
"- HE DIED!"
"CORINTH IS MASTERLESS!"
"ALL'S IN AMAZED CONFUSION,"
"AND SOME ARE LOOTING,"
"BUT THEY'LL AVENGE HIM."
"I'M GOING ON!"
"SOMEONE IS"
"GOING TO DIE."
"HERE COMES"
"MY WITNESS."
"I'VE HOBBLED AND"
"RUN, AND FALLEN."
"CATCH YOUR BREATH;"
"TAKE YOUR TIME."
"I WANT THE WHOLE TALE;"
"EVERY GESTURE AND CRY."
"I'VE LABORED FOR THIS."
"DEATH IS"
"TURNED LOOSE."
"PLEASE, NURSE; I'M"
"VERY HAPPY. GO SLOWLY."
"TELL ME THESE THINGS IN"
"ORDER FROM THE BEGINNING"
"AS WHEN YOU USED TO"
"DRESS ME, WHEN I WAS LITTLE,"
"IN MY FATHER'S HOUSE:"
"YOU USED TO SAY"
""ONE THING AT A TIME; ONE"
"THING AND THEN THE NEXT"."
"MY EYES ARE BLISTERED, MY"
"THROAT'S LIKE A DRY STRAW."
"THERE WAS A LONG MIRROR ON THE"
"WALL, AND WHEN HER EYES SAW IT,"
"THE CHILDREN HAD GONE, SHE"
"PUT HER HANDS IN THE CASES"
"AND TOOK THOSE GOLD THINGS -"
"AND I WATCHED, FOR I FEARED"
"SOMETHING MIGHT HAPPEN TO HER,"
"BUT I NEVER THOUGHT SO HORRIBLY"
"- SHE PLACED ON HER LITTLE HEAD"
"THE BRIGHT GOLDEN WREATH,"
"SHE GATHERED THE"
"FLOWING GOLD ROBE"
"AROUND HER WHITE SHOULDERS"
"AND SLENDER FLANKS,"
"AND GAZED AT THE GOLDEN"
"GIRL IN THE METAL MIRROR,"
"GOING BACK AND FORTH"
"ON TIPTOE ALMOST;"
"AND SWUNG HER"
"LEG FROM THE HIP"
"TO SEE THE FLEXIBLE GOLD"
"MOULDING THE THIGH."
"BUT SUDDENLY"
"HORROR BEGAN."
"YOU ARE NOT SUFFERING. YOU"
"SAW IT, YOU DID NOT FEEL IT."
"SPEAK PLAINLY."
"HER FACE WENT WHITE; SHE"
"STAGGERED A FEW STEPS,"
"BENDING OVER, AND FELL INTO"
"THE GREAT THRONE-CHAIR;"
"THEN A SERVING-WOMAN"
"BEGAN TO CALL FOR WATER"
"THINKING SHE"
"HAD FAINTED,"
"BUT SAW THE FOAM START ON HER"
"LIPS, AND THE EYES ROLLING,"
"AND SCREAMED INSTEAD."
"THEN SOME OF THEM RAN AFTER"
"JASON, OTHERS RAN TO FETCH"
"CREON: AND THAT DOOMED GIRL"
"FRIGHTFULLY CRYING STARTED UP"
"FROM THE CHAIR; SHE RAN, SHE WAS"
"LIKE A TORCH, AND THE GOLD CROWN"
"LIKE A COMET STREAMED FIRE;"
"SHE TORE AT IT BUT IT CLUNG TO"
"HER HEAD; THE GOLDEN CLOAK WAS"
"WHITE-HOT, FLAYING THE FLESH"
"FROM THE LIVING BONES; BLOOD"
"MIXED WITH FIRE RAN DOWN,"
"SHE FELL, SHE BURNED"
"ON THE FLOOR, WRITHING."
"THEN CREON CAME AND"
"FLUNG HIMSELF ON HER,"
"HOPING TO CHOKE THAT RAGE OF"
"FLAME, BUT IT RAN THROUGH HIM,"
"HIS OWN AGONY MADE HIM"
"FORGET HIS DAUGHTER'S."
"THE FIRE STUCK TO THE FLESH,"
"IT GLUED HIM TO HER;"
"HE TRIED TO STAND UP, HE"
"TORE HER BODY AND HIS OWN."
"THE BURNT FLESH BROKE"
"IN LUMPS FROM THE BONES."
"NO, NO, NO MORE!"
"I HAVE FINISHED."
"THEY LIE THERE. EYELESS,"
"DISFACED, UNTOUCHABLE;"
"MIDDENS OF SMOKING FLESH"
"LACED WITH MOLTEN GOLD."
"NO! I HAVE FINISHED. I HAVE"
"NO MORE. HAVE MERCY..."
"HAD THEY DIED WHEN"
"YOU CAME AWAY?"
"NO, THE HARSH"
"TIDES OF BREATH"
"STILL WHISTLED IN"
"THEIR BLACK MOUTHS."
"NO ONE COULD"
"TOUCH THEM."
"AND JASON?"
"JASON STOOD IN THEIR"
"SMOKE, UNABLE, HELPLESS.."
"NO ONE COULD"
"TOUCH THEM."
"YOU HAVE TOLD"
"GOOD NEWS WELL."
"I'LL REWARD YOU."
"AS FOR THOSE PEOPLE,"
"THEY WILL SOON DIE."
"THEIR WOES ARE"
"OVER TOO SOON."
"MINE ARE NOT."
"JASON'S ARE NOT."
"MY LITTLE FALCONS!"
"LISTEN TO ME:"
"LAUGH AND BE GLAD: WE"
"HAVE ACCOMPLISHED IT."
"OUR ENEMIES WERE"
"GREAT AND POWERFUL,"
"THEY WERE FULL OF COLD PRIDE,"
"THEY RULED ALL THIS COUNTRY:"
"THEY ARE DOWN"
"IN THE ASHES"
"HOWLING IN THE ASHES,"
"IN THEIR OWN ASHES."
"NO ONE HAS"
"EVER INJURED ME"
"BUT SUFFERED MORE"
"THAN I HAD SUFFERED."
"THEREFORE THIS FINAL SACRIFICE"
"I INTENDED GLARES IN MY EYES"
"LIKE A LION ON A RIDGE."
"WE STILL HATE, YOU KNOW: A"
"PERSON NEARER THAN THESE,"
"MORE VILE, MORE CONTEMPTIBLE,"
"WHOM I... I CANNOT..."
"IF HE WERE MY OWN HANDS I"
"WOULD CUT HIM OFF, OR MY EYES,"
"I WOULD GOUGE HIM OUT, BUT"
"NOT YOU: THAT WAS MADNESS."
"SO JASON WILL BE ABLE TO SAY"
""I HAVE LOST MUCH, BUT NOT ALL:"
"I HAVE CHILDREN:"
"MY SONS ARE WELL"."
"THAT TOO IS"
"UNBEARABLE."
"I WANT HIM CRUSHED,"
"BONELESS, CRAWLING."
"I HAVE NO CHOICE."
"YOU THERE!"
"YOU THOUGHT ME SOFT AND"
"SUBMISSIVE LIKE A COMMON WOMAN,"
"WHO TAKES A BLOW AND CRIES"
"A LITTLE AND WIPES HER FACE"
"AND RUNS ABOUT THE HOUSEWORK,"
"LOVING HER MASTER?"
"I AM NOT"
"SUCH A WOMAN."
"AWAKE, MEDEA! AWAKE"
"FROM THE EVIL DREAM."
"CATCH UP YOUR"
"CHILDREN AND FLEE."
"FARTHER THAN ATHENS, FARTHER"
"THAN THRACE OR SPAIN,"
"FLEE TO THE"
"WORLD'S END."
"FIRE AND DEATH HAVE"
"DONE YOUR BIDDING,"
"ARE YOU NOT FED FULL OF"
"EVIL? IS IT NOT ENOUGH?"
"NO. LOATHING"
"IS ENDLESS."
"HATE IS A BOTTOMLESS CUP,"
"I WILL POUR AND POUR."
"CHILDREN! OH MY LITTLE"
"ONES. WHAT WAS I DREAMING?"
"MY BABES, MY OWN!"
"NEVER, NEVER, NEVER SHALL"
"MY OWN BABES BE HURT."
"NOT IF EVERY WAR-HOUND AND"
"SPEAR-SLAVE IN HEADLESS CORINTH"
"WERE ON THE TRACK."
"LOOK, THEIR SWEET LIPS ARE"
"TREMBLING: LOOK, WOMEN,"
"THE LITTLE MOUTHS: I FRIGHTENED"
"THEM WITH THOSE WILD WORDS:"
"THEY STOOD AND FACED"
"ME, THEY NEVER FLINCHED."
"LOOK AT THEIR"
"PROUD YOUNG EYES!"
"MY EAGLETS,"
"MY GOLDEN ONES!"
"OH SWEET SMALL FACES LIKE"
"THE PALE WILD ROSES THAT BLOOM"
"WHERE THE CLIFF BREAKS TOWARD"
"THE BRILLIANT SEA: THE DELICATE"
"FOAM AND COLOR, THE DEAR, DEAR"
"FRAGRANCE OF YOUR SWEET BREATH."
"MY LADY: MAKE HASTE! TAKE"
"THEM AND FLEE AWAY FROM HERE!"
"SOMEONE WILL COME"
"SOON. OH LISTEN TO ME."
"ALL CORINTH IS IN CONFUSION"
"AND HEADLESS ANARCHY,"
"UNKINGED AND AMAZED"
"AROUND THAT HORROR YOU MADE:"
"THEREFORE THEY LINGER: YET IN"
"A MOMENT ITS AVENGERS COME!"
"I HAVE A SWORD IN THE"
"HOUSE. I CAN DEFEND YOU."
"WOULD YOU SAY THAT THIS"
"CHILD HAS JASON'S EYES?"
"THEY ARE HIS CUBS."
"THEY HAVE HIS BLOOD."
"AS LONG AS THEY LIVE I"
"SHALL BE MIXED WITH HIM."
"CHILDREN... IT IS EVENING."
"SEE, EVENING HAS COME."
"COME, LITTLE ONES,"
"INTO THE HOUSE."
"EVENING BRINGS"
"ALL THINGS HOME."
"IT BRINGS THE BIRD TO THE BOUGH"
"AND THE LAMB TO THE FOLD,"
"AND THE CHILD"
"TO THE MOTHER."
"WE MUST NOT"
"THINK TOO MUCH:"
"PEOPLE GO MAD IF"
"THEY THINK TOO MUCH."
"NO! NO! NO!!!!"
"WHAT HAS HAPPENED?"
"THAT CROWN OF HORRORS."
"(CHILDREN SCREAMING)"
"MEDEA, NO!"
"PREVENT HER! SAVE THEM!"
"OPEN THE DOOR."
"A GOD IS HERE, MEDEA. HE"
"CALLS TO YOU, HE FORBIDS YOU!"
"(FADING SCREAMS)"
"THERE IS NO HOPE"
"IN HEAVEN OR EARTH."
"IT IS DONE."
"IT WAS DESTINED WHEN SHE"
"WAS BORN, NOW IT IS DONE."
"WHO IS COMING?"
"SOMEONE IS"
"RUNNING AT US!"
"THE ACCURSED"
"MAN, JASON."
"HE HAS A SWORD!"
"I AM MORE AFRAID OF THE CLINGING"
"CONTAGION OF HIS MISFORTUNES."
"A MAN THE GODS"
"ARE DESTROYING."
"WHERE IS THAT"
"MURDERESS?"
"HERE IN THE HOUSE"
"OR HAS SHE FLED?"
"SHE'LL HAVE TO HIDE IN"
"THE HEAVY METAL DARKNESS"
"AND CAVES OF THE EARTH - AND"
"THERE I'LL CRAWL AND FIND HER."
"ARE YOU STRUCK DUMB?"
"ARE YOU SHIELDING HER?"
"WHERE IS MEDEA?"
"YOU CAUSED"
"THESE THINGS."
"SHE WAS FAITHFUL TO"
"YOU AND YOU BROKE FAITH."
"HORROR IS HERE."
"UNCAUSED. THERE"
"WAS NO REASON!"
"TELL ME AT LEAST WHETHER"
"SHE TOOK MY SONS WITH HER?"
"CREON'S MEN WOULD KILL"
"THEM FOR WHAT SHE HAS DONE:"
"I'D RATHER SAVE"
"THEM THAN PUNISH HER."
"HELP ME IN THIS."
"(MOANING)"
"SO SHE HAS"
"KILLED HERSELF."
"GOOD. SHE NEVER"
"LACKED COURAGE."
"I'LL TAKE MY SONS TO"
"THE FAR END OF THE EARTH,"
"AND NEVER SPEAK OF"
"THESE THINGS AGAIN."
"OH, OH, OH..."
"IS SHE LYING"
"IN THERE?"
"HONORABLE AT"
"LEAST IN HER DEATH,"
"I MIGHT"
"HAVE KNOWN IT."
"WELL, ANSWER ME!"
"DEATH IS THERE;"
"DEATH IS HERE."
"BUT YOU ARE BOTH BLIND AND"
"DEAF: HOW CAN I TELL YOU?"
"BUT THE CHILDREN"
"ARE WELL?"
"I DO NOT KNOW WHETHER"
"MEDEA LIVES OR IS DEAD."
"OPEN! OPEN THE"
"DOOR! OPEN! OPEN!"
"WOMEN: I AM "
"ALONE. HELP ME."
"HELP ME TO"
"BREAK THE BOLT!"
"GO AND FIND HELP!"
"WHAT FEEBLE NIGHT-BIRD OVERCOME"
"BY MISFORTUNE BEATS AT MY DOOR?"
"CAN THIS BE THAT"
"GREAT ADVENTURER,"
"THE FAMOUS LORD OF THE SEAS"
"AND DELIGHT OF WOMEN,"
"THE HEIR OF"
"RICH CORINTH,"
"THIS CRYING DRUNKARD"
"ON THE DARK DOORSTEP?"
"YET YOU'VE NOT"
"HAD ENOUGH."
"YOU HAVE COME TO DRINK"
"THE LAST BITTER DROPS."
"I'LL POUR THEM FOR YOU."
"WHAT'S THAT STAIN"
"ON YOUR HAND?"
"THE WINE I WAS POURING"
"FOR YOU SPILLED ON MY HAND."
"DEAR WERE THE LITTLE GRAPES"
"THAT WERE CRUSHED TO MAKE IT;"
"DEAR WERE"
"THE VINEYARDS."
"I CAME TO KILL YOU, MEDEA,"
"LIKE A CAUGHT BEAST,"
"LIKE A"
"CRAWLING VIPER."
"GIVE ME MY SONS, THAT I MAY"
"SAVE THEM FROM CREON'S MEN,"
"I'LL GO QUIETLY AWAY."
"HUSH: THEY"
"ARE SLEEPING."
"PERHAPS I WILL LET YOU LOOK AT"
"THEM: YOU CANNOT HAVE THEM."
"BUT THE HOUR IS LATE, YOU OUGHT"
"TO GO HOME TO THAT HIGH-BORN"
"BRIDE; THE NIGHT HAS FALLEN,"
"SURELY SHE LONGS FOR YOU."
"SURELY HER FLESH IS NOT CRUSTED"
"BLACK, NOR HER MOUTH A HORROR."
"SHE IS VERY YOUNG, BUT"
"SURELY SHE WILL BE FRUITFUL."
"YOUR SWORD YOU"
"WANT? THERE IT IS."
"NOT THAT STEP,"
"THE NEXT LOWER."
"I'LL KILL YOU FIRST AND"
"THEN I'LL FIND MY SONS."
"DO YOU SEE THE TWO FIRE-SNAKES"
"THAT GUARD THIS DOOR?"
"ONE ON EACH SIDE:"
"TWO SERPENTS."
"THEIR THROATS ARE"
"SWOLLEN WITH POISON,"
"THEIR EYES ARE BURNING COALS"
"AND THEIR TONGUES ARE FIRE."
"THEY ARE COILED READY TO"
"STRIKE: IF YOU COME NEAR THEM,"
"THEY'LL MAKE YOU"
"WHAT CREON IS."
"BUT STAND THERE VERY QUIETLY,"
"I'LL LET YOU LOOK AT YOUR SONS."
"OPEN THE DOORS,"
"THAT HE MAY SEE THEM."
"I KNEW IT."
"I KNEW IT BEFORE"
"I SAW IT, I KNEW."
"NO WILD BEAST"
"WOULD HAVE DONE IT."
"I HAVE DONE IT"
"BECAUSE I LOATHED YOU"
"MORE THAN I"
"LOVED THEM."
"I SHOULD HAVE KILLED"
"YOU THE DAY I SAW YOU."
"I TORE MY OWN HEART AND"
"LAUGHED: I WAS TEARING YOURS."
"WILL YOU LAUGH WHILE"
"I STRANGLE YOU?"
"I WOULD STILL LAUGH."
"I'D STILL BE JOYFUL"
"TO KNOW THAT EVERY BONE"
"OF YOUR LIFE IS BROKEN;"
"YOU ARE LEFT HOPELESS,"
"FRIENDLESS, MATELESS,"
"CHILDLESS, AVOIDED"
"BY GODS AND MEN,"
"UNCLEAN WITH AWFUL"
"EXCESS OF GRIEF - CHILDLESS."
"IT DOES NOT MATTER NOW"
"WHO LIVES OR WHO DIES."
"GO DOWN TO YOUR SHIP"
"ARGO AND WEEP BESIDE IT,"
"THAT ROTTING HULK ON"
"THE HARBOR-BEACH"
"DRAWN DRY ASTRAND, NEVER"
"TO BE LAUNCHED AGAIN"
"- EVEN THE WEEDS AND"
"BARNACLES ON THE WARPED KEEL"
"ARE DEAD AND STINK - THAT'S YOUR"
"LAST COMPANION, AND ONLY HOPE."
"FOR SOMETIME ONE OF THE ROTTING"
"TIMBERS WILL FALL ON YOUR HEAD"
"AND KILL YOU: MEANWHILE"
"SIT THERE AND MOURN,"
"REMEMBERING"
"THE INFINITE EVIL,"
"AND THE GOOD"
"THAT YOU MADE EVIL."
"GIVE ME MY BOYS: THE LITTLE"
"PITIFUL VIOLATED BODIES:"
"THAT I MAY BURY THEM"
"IN SOME KIND PLACE."
"TO YOU? YOU WOULD BETRAY"
"EVEN THE LITTLE BODIES:"
"COIN THEM FOR SILVER,"
"SELL THEM FOR POWER. NO."
"LET ME TOUCH THEIR DEAR FLESH,"
"LET ME TOUCH THEIR HAIR!"
"NO, THEY ARE MINE."
"THEY ARE GOING WITH ME:"
"THE CHARIOT IS AT THE GATE."
"YOU HAD LOVE"
"AND BETRAYED IT;"
"NOW OF ALL MEN YOU ARE"
"UTTERLY THE MOST MISERABLE."
"AS I OF WOMEN."
"BUT I, A WOMAN, A FOREIGNER,"
"ALONE AGAINST YOU"
"AND THE MIGHT OF CORINTH,"
"HAVE MET YOU THROAT FOR THROAT,"
"EVIL FOR EVIL,"
"GRIEF FOR GRIEF."
"AND I GO FORTH UNDER THE"
"COLD, CLEAR EYES OF HEAVEN;"
"THOSE WEAKNESS-DESPISING"
"STARS: NOT ME THEY SCORN."